Added Prisma Postgres guide to `docs/integrations/databases/` (#2465)
clerkinc/clerk-docs: docs/integrations/databases/prisma-postgres.mdx

     ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
     cd clerk-prisma-example
     npm install prisma --save-dev
     npm install tsx --save-dev
     npm install @prisma/extension-accelerate
     ```

  ## Integrate the Next.js Clerk SDK

  Follow the [Next.js quickstart](/docs/quickstarts/nextjs) to integrate the Clerk Next.js SDK into your application.

  ## Protect your application routes

  To ensure that only authenticated users can access your application, modify [`clerkMiddleware`](/docs/references/nextjs/clerk-middleware) to require authentication for every route.

  ```typescript {{ filename: 'middleware.ts', mark: [[3, 5]] }}
  import { clerkMiddleware } from '@clerk/nextjs/server'

  export default clerkMiddleware(async (auth) => {
    await auth.protect()
  })

  export const config = {
    matcher: [
      // Skip Next.js internals and all static files, unless found in search params
      '/((?!_next|[^?]*\\.(?:html?|css|js(?!on)|jpe?g|webp|png|gif|svg|ttf|woff2?|ico|csv|docx?|xlsx?|zip|webmanifest)).*)',
      // Always run for API routes
      '/(api|trpc)(.*)',
    ],
  }
  ```

  ## Set up the application schema and database connection

>   Next, you'll need to initialize Prisma and set up a Prisma Postgres database.

Reviewer: I agree - let's skip a link since it shows you how to set up the database

  1. Initialize Prisma in your project:
     ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
     npx prisma init --output ../app/generated/prisma
     ```

  After initializing Prisma, your environment variable file should have the following values:

  ```env {{ filename: '.env' }}
  DATABASE_URL=PRISMA_POSTGRES_CONNECTION_STRING
  NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY={{pub_key}}
  CLERK_SECRET_KEY={{secret}}
  ```

>   1. Create a `schema.prisma` file in the `prisma/` directory that defines the database schema. The schema will include a table called `user_messages` with the columns `user_id`, `create_ts`, and `message`. The `user_id` column will be used to store the user's Clerk ID.
> 
>      ```prisma {{ filename: 'prisma/schema.prisma' }}
>      generator client {
>        provider = "prisma-client-js"
>        output   = "../app/generated/prisma"
>      }
> 
>      datasource db {
>        provider = "postgresql"
>        url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
>      }
> 
>      model UserMessage {
>        user_id   String   @id
>        create_ts DateTime @default(now())
>        message   String
>      }
>      ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. You will find the file `schema.prisma` in the `prisma/` directory, this defines the database schema. Add to the schema a new table called `user_messages` with the columns `user_id`, `create_ts`, and `message`. The `user_id` column will be used to store the user's Clerk ID.

     ```prisma {{ filename: 'prisma/schema.prisma', mark: [[11, 15]] }}
     generator client {
       provider = "prisma-client-js"
       output   = "../app/generated/prisma"
     }

     datasource db {
       provider = "postgresql"
       url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
     }

     model UserMessage {
       user_id   String   @id
       create_ts DateTime @default(now())
       message   String
     }
     ```
```
From running the `npx prisma init --output ../app/generated/prisma` command in the terminal it already creates the `schema.prisma` file for us.

  1. Create a reusable Prisma Client instance in `lib/prisma.ts`:

     ```typescript {{ filename: 'lib/prisma.ts' }}
     import { PrismaClient } from '../app/generated/prisma'

     const globalForPrisma = globalThis as unknown as {
       prisma: PrismaClient | undefined
     }

     export const prisma = globalForPrisma.prisma ?? new PrismaClient()

     if (process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production') globalForPrisma.prisma = prisma

     export default prisma
     ```

  ## Push the schema to the database

  Run the following command to push the schema to the database:

  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}

>   npx prisma db push

Reviewer 2: I think this should go before adding the `lib/prisma.ts` step as that imports from within the folder this command generates. Alternatively adding a `prisma generate` step before adding that file would also work.

  ```

  ## Create Server Actions to handle user interactions

  To handle form submissions for adding and deleting user messages, create two Server Actions in `app/actions.ts`. Use Clerk's [`auth()` helper](/docs/references/nextjs/auth) to obtain the user ID, which will be used to interact with the database.

  ```typescript {{ filename: 'app/actions.ts' }}
  'use server'

>   import { auth } from '@clerk/nextjs/server'
>   import prisma from '@/lib/prisma'
> 
>   export async function createUserMessage(formData: FormData) {
>     const { userId } = await auth()
>     if (!userId) throw new Error('User not found')
> 
>     const message = formData.get('message') as string
>     await prisma.userMessage.create({
>       data: {
>         user_id: userId,
>         message,
>       },
>     })
>   }
> 
>   export async function deleteUserMessage() {
>     const { userId } = await auth()
>     if (!userId) throw new Error('User not found')
> 
>     await prisma.userMessage.deleteMany({
>       where: { user_id: userId },
>     })
>   }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  import { auth } from '@clerk/nextjs/server'
  import prisma from '@/lib/prisma'
  import { revalidatePath } from "next/cache";

  export async function createUserMessage(formData: FormData) {
    const { userId } = await auth()
    if (!userId) throw new Error('User not found')

    const message = formData.get('message') as string
    await prisma.userMessage.create({
      data: {
        user_id: userId,
        message,
      },
    })
    
    revalidatePath("/");
  }

  export async function deleteUserMessage() {
    const { userId } = await auth()
    if (!userId) throw new Error('User not found')

    await prisma.userMessage.deleteMany({
      where: { user_id: userId },
    })
    
    revalidatePath("/");
  }
```
Adding the `revalidatePath()` calls makes sense to me since we are using server actions, gets the home page we are about to add to instantly show the result of the users actions. Alternatively tagging the userMessage query in the page and then revalidating the tag instead would be a more robust solution but maybe out of scope of this guide.

---
title: Integrate Prisma Postgres with Clerk
description: Learn how to integrate Clerk into your Prisma Postgres application.
---

<TutorialHero
  beforeYouStart={[
    {
      title: "Set up a Clerk application",
      link: "/docs/quickstarts/setup-clerk",
      icon: "clerk",
    }
  ]}
/>

This tutorial shows you how to build a Next.js application with Clerk authentication and Prisma Postgres. You'll create a simple messaging app where users can store and manage their personal messages using Prisma ORM for database operations.

<Steps>
  ## Create a new Next.js project

  Create a new Next.js project using the following command:

  ```sh {{ filename: 'terminal' }}
  npx create-next-app clerk-prisma-example --typescript --eslint --tailwind --use-npm --no-src-dir --app --import-alias "@/*"

>   ```

Reviewer: we like to have users start from the nextjs quickstart, and then hit this guide. so this part shouldn't be necessary.

the guide should be written as if the user just came from the quickstart - the next step would be what do they need to install for the guide.

i think this needs a bit of restructuring
